Atreus, also known as Loki, is the deuteragonist of God of War (2018) and one of the two protagonists of God of War Ragnarök. He is the son of Kratos, the Greek God of War, and Faye, a Jötunn (Giant). Atreus is a sickly child who grows up with his mother while his father is absent for long periods of time. He learns various Norse languages, hunting, and tracking from his mother, and is also taught how to write down his stories as he moves through life.

One day, Kratos returns home earlier than usual, having been gone less than a day. Atreus compliments his father for winning a fight against wolves with his bare hands, but Kratos scolds him and tells him that while he won the fight, he lost the only battle that truly mattered to him. The next day, Faye tells Atreus that she will be out hunting and will return before nightfall. Before Kratos leaves, he scolds Atreus for playing with his wooden figures instead of chopping firewood. Later, Kratos returns home and is followed by Beast-Men who blame him for killing their brother. As they engage in combat, the Beast-Men reveal themselves to be shapeshifters and transform into bears. Kratos kills the group, but the leader proclaims that he will return with the rest of the clan to take revenge.

Kratos decides to take Atreus with him as they hunt down the leader. As Kratos loses the trail, Atreus suggests visiting the old seer down the valley, whom Faye sometimes visits for help. With no other option, Kratos agrees, and Atreus guides them to the seer. The seer tells them that the Beast-Men are able to shapeshift thanks to a bear-totem, and she hints that the clan is currently occupying the Longhouse. Kratos decides to make the journey by walking himself, leaving Atreus behind with the seer, believing that he is not ready yet.

The elderly seer tells Atreus that his father has successfully killed the Beast-Men and has taken away most of their shapeshifting abilities by destroying the bear-totem. She then hands Atreus a knife and tells him that he must do something before Kratos returns to them. Suddenly, the Beast-Men leader appears and kills the seer, but Atreus is able to defend himself. As the seer dies, Kratos and Atreus make her a funeral pyre. As they walk home, Kratos compliments Atreus' defense but says he is still not ready to fight yet.

One day, Faye tells Atreus that an old friend of hers taught her how to craft a long bow, and she will now pass the knowledge onto Atreus to make one. As Faye finishes the bow, Atreus bestows it with the name Talon Bow. This becomes one of his first official weapons, and he immediately starts practicing with his mother. When his father returns home, he tests the bowstring without firing it, much to Atreus' confusion. Later, Kratos compliments the weapon, making Atreus happy to finally have received his father's attention without being scolded.

As Atreus practices with his bow and runic charms, he starts to develop abilities and magic he cannot explain, such as extrasensory perception, telepathic readings, and understanding the feelings of animals. When Faye learns all about this, she appears to be pleased with her son.

During a normal day, Atreus decides to test his telepathic abilities and hears an animal voice cry out in pain. Despite his mother's warning of not wandering too far out to the woods, Atreus grabs his bow and pack his arrows. He sets forth on his first adventure, where he hears a mysterious cry of a pained animal asking for help. As he continues forth, passing a tree with a yellow handprint adorned to its bark, he suddenly finds himself lost in an unfamiliar terrain. Atreus eventually finds the animal, a large doe on the ground with an arrow stuck in its own neck. He eventually calms down, comforts the doe, and eases her passing by reciting Norse death rites. To Atreus' surprise, he finds the corpse of the doe's hunter, sadly dismembered in pieces.

As Atreus panics, he eventually finds the ones responsible for the carnage, two draugrs, which engage him in combat. As Atreus even manages to kill one of the draugrs, the other one slices his arm. In pain, Atreus begins to feel a blinding rage come over him, which makes him pass out, right before he sees his father easily kill the remaining draugr. Atreus then awakens to find himself being carried by Kratos while running at unimaginable speeds. Atreus feels his arm wound, as Kratos scolds him and tells Atreus to guide them The sun had set, casting a warm glow across the horizon as the evening breeze carried whispers of the day's adventures. In the distance, the bustling city lights twinkled, a stark contrast to the serene countryside that surrounded them. As the night deepened, the moon rose, its silver beams dancing upon the rippling waters of the nearby lake, creating a mesmerizing reflection. A gentle hush fell over the land, inviting all to embrace the tranquility of the moment and find solace in the beauty of nature's embrace.